So what is a project plan?
It is the entire set of documents that'll be used
for project execution and control.
Now typically, it's going to be the list of tasks you have to go do,
and an estimate, and a schedule, but it'll be a lot more than that,
and we're going to cover all the aspects of what a project plan is,
and also the project the plan is not just the requirements
or just a Microsoft project document, it is much,
much more.
Okay, now let's go build a plan.
In this section, I'll be showing you how to build your plan step by step,
and first we'll be covering what I call the core elements.
So here are the basic steps in building your plan,
and I've divided into two areas, the first are what I call the core elements.
Second are the implementation elements, and within the core elements,
we have three.
We validate our PDD, we build a WBS, or Work Breakdown Structure of tasks,
and we itemize the acceptance criteria,
and I'm going to go into each of these in detail in the following slides.
The second part are the implementation elements,
this is where we apply resources to our WBS,
and we develop estimates for those tasks,
and we develop a schedule,
so this is the core element and what I call the implementation
element of your basic plan for your project.
Okay, let's get started.
Step one is to validate the project definition document.
So what you want to do basically is get a team in a room,
you know, all the subject matter experts,
and maybe even some stakeholders, whoever,
and start going through your plan, start looking at it in detail.
So basically what you want to do is you want to validate
the contents that are in your document,
every one of those sections and subsections that we talked about before,
we want to make sure it's still valid and relevant for the project,
and as you go through each one, you might find that oh,
we missed something, we need to update the plan,
and believe me this usually does happen.
You also may need to revisit the requirements with the stakeholders,
have the requirements changed, is the scope bigger,
is the scope smaller,
has business changed in such a way that would affect the requirements?
Also, how long has the PDD been done, maybe it's been a month,
what if it's been three months and you kind of have to blow the dust off of it?
So if you've had a time lag then you may need to spend even a
little more time going through and revisiting the different
portions and sections of the document.
Okay, so the document looks great, we've made some changes,
we've updated it, maybe we have a new stakeholder,
maybe some of the requirements have changed,
maybe we've modified the budget.
So basically it's been validated and revised,
looks good, okay, good, step one, check,
we're done, and now we can move to step two.
The last thing you want to do is start a project in which the PDD is incorrect,
or weak, or not relevant anymore,
your project would have a more likely chance of failing. Okay, let's move on to step two.